# Docker Basics

## What is Docker?
Docker is an open-source platform designed to help developers build, deploy, and manage applications in lightweight, portable containers. Containers package an application and its dependencies together, ensuring that the application runs consistently across different environments.

## Key Components of Docker
### 1. Docker Engine
- The core of Docker, responsible for building, running, and managing containers.

### 2. Docker Image
- A lightweight, standalone package containing everything needed to run an application: code, runtime, libraries, and configuration files.
- Images are immutable and serve as templates for creating containers.

### 3. Docker Container
- A runtime instance of a Docker image.
- Containers are isolated environments where applications run, ensuring consistency regardless of the host system.

### 4. Docker Hub
- A cloud-based repository for sharing Docker images.
- Developers can pull prebuilt images or push their own for others to use.

### 5. Dockerfile
- A text file containing instructions to build a Docker image step by step.
- Helps automate the image creation process.

## Basic Docker Commands
### 1.Install Docker
```
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
sudo sh get-docker.sh
```

### 2. Check Docker Version
```
docker --version
```
### 3. Run a Container
```
docker run hello-world
```
### 4. List of Containers

```
docker ps
docker ps -a
```
- Use `docker ps -a` to list all containers (including stopped ones).
### 5. Pull an Image from Docker Hub

- `docker pull <image_name>`
```
docker pull nginx
```

### 6. Build an Image from a Dockerfile
- `docker build -t <image_name> . `
```
docker build -t <image_name> .
```
### 7. Stop a Running Container
```
docker stop <container_id or container_name>
```
### 8. Remove a Container
```
docker rm <container_id or container_name>
```
### 9. Remove an Image
```
docker rmi <image_name or image_id>
```