# Git Diff, Stash and Tags

## 1. Git diff

The `git diff` command helps you see the differences between two commits. It compares the changes made in one commit to those in another. Git treats the changes in the same file as two different versions, giving them temporary names and showing you what’s different between them.

***How to Read the Diff:***

- `a/`: Refers to file A (the original version).
- `b/`: Refers to file B (the updated version).
- `---`: Indicates file A (before the change).
- `+++`: Indicates file B (after the change).
- `@@`: Shows the line numbers where the changes happened.

Even though `file A` and `file B` are the `same file`, Git treats them as `different versions` for comparison. Git displays the changes made, highlighting the affected lines and providing a preview of what was added, removed, or modified.

### `1. Comparing Working Directory and Staging Area`
```
git diff
```
### `2. Comparing Staging Area with Repository`
```
git diff --staged
```
### `3. Comparing between branches and commit`
```
git diff <branch-name-one> <branch-name-two>
```
Another way to compare the difference between two branches
```
git diff branch-name-one..branch-name-two
```
### `4. Comparing Specific Commits:`
```
git diff <commit-hash-one> <commit-hash-two>
git diff commit-hash-one..commit-hash-two
```

## 2. Git Stash
Stash is a way to save your changes in a temporary location. It is useful when you want to make changes to a file but don’t want to commit them yet. You can then come back to the file later and apply the changes.
```
git stash
```
### `1. Naming the stash`
```
git stash save "work in progress on X feature"
```
### `2. View the stash list`
```
git stash list
```
### `3. Apply the stash`
```
git stash apply
```
### `4. Apply the specific stash`
```
git stash apply stash@{0}
```
### `5. Applying and dropping the stash`
This command applies the stash and drops it from the stash list.
```
git stash pop
```
### `6. Drop the stash`
This command without applies the stash and drops it from the stash list.
```
git stash drop
```
### `7.Applying stash to a specific branch`
```
git stash apply stash@{0} <branch-name>
```
### `8.Clearing the stash`
```
git stash clear
```

## 3. Git Tags

Tags are a way to mark specific points in your repository’s history. They are helpful for identifying important versions of your code, such as release versions or milestones. Think of tags as sticky notes you attach to your commits, allowing you to easily reference and remember significant changes in your project.
### `1. Naming the stash`
This command creates a new tag with the specified name. The tag will be attached to the current commit.
```
git tag <tag-name>
```

### `2. Create an annotated tag`
```
git tag -a <tag-name> -m "Release 1.0"
```

### `3. List all tags `
```
git tag
```
### `4. Tagging a specific commit `
```
git tag <tag-name> <commit-hash>
```
### `5. Push tags to remote repository `
```
git push origin <tag-name>
```
### `6. Delete a tag `
```
git tag -d <tag-name>
```
### `7. Delete tag on remote repository `
```
git push origin :<tag-name>
```
## Conclusion

In this section, we have learned about the different commands related to diff, tags and stash in git.