
# Rebase and Reflog in Git
## 1. Rebase in git
`Git rebase` is a powerful feature that lets you change the base of a branch. Essentially, it allows you to move a branch to a new starting point by “replaying” its commits onto a different commit. This helps maintain a cleaner and more linear project history.

Many developers prefer using rebase instead of merge because it keeps the commit history tidy and easy to follow. It also lets you make code changes without impacting the original branch.

### `1. Ensure you are on the branch you want to rebase: `
```
git checkout feature-branch
git rebase main
```
### `2. Resolve any conflicts: `
If there are any conflicts, you will need to resolve them manually. You can use the merge tool in VSCode to resolve the conflicts.
```
git add <resolved-files>
git rebase --continue
```
> Notte: Try to avoid `--force` option when using rebase. It can cause issues with the project history.

## 2. Git reflog
Git reflog is a command that shows you the history of your commits. It allows you to see the changes that you have made to your repository over time. This can be useful for debugging and understanding the history of your project.
### `1.View the reflog:`
This will show you the history of your commits.
```
git reflog
```
### `2.git reflog`
```
git reflog <commit-hash>
```
### `3. Recover lost commits or changes`
If you accidentally deleted a branch or made changes that are no longer visible in the commit history, you can often recover them using the reflog. First, find the reference to the commit where the branch or changes existed, and then reset your branch to that reference.
```
git reflog <commit-hash>
git reset --hard <commit-hash>
```
or you can use `HEAD@{n}` to reset to the nth commit before the one you want to reset to.
```
git reflog <commit-hash>
git reset --hard HEAD@{1}
```
